## Project Milestone 5

Version History: 

- Released, 2019/11/24

Due WEDNESDAY December 11, 11:59PM

In this milestone we are:

- Performing initial evaluations of our prototype and reporting on those
  evaluations.
- Creating artifacts regarding our evaluations.
- Getting more practice with LaTeX


Create a repository for this milestone at this following Github Classroom
link:
[https://classroom.github.com/g/em07szJA](https://classroom.github.com/g/em07szJA)

All material you want graded should be in that repository. All the files
needed to compile your document, a no more than those files, should be in that
repository. The `PM5.tex` file should be in the root of the repository. **NO
Auxilliary files should be in that folder. Do not include PM5.pdf, PM5.aux,
etc.** 

Continue to use the LaTeX files required to format an IEEE VGTC-style
document. As in the previous milestones, I am not providing the rest of the
files. You will likely want to copy files from you last milestone and adapt it
to the requirements below.

There should be a `PM5.tex` file that compiles into a `PM5.pdf` file when I
type `make`. Include the updated Makefile. Additionally, there should be a
short movie demonstrating your functioning prototype.

As with PM4, the code and any other files required to run your project should
be available in a `Project` directory in the repository unless we have
discussed ahead of time an alternative due to very large data, proprietary
software, privacy-protected/IRB-protected raw data, or similar.

You will also include files regarding any study/evaluation you have done. For
visualization desgins projects, these should be in a folder called
`Evaluation` under the `Project` directory. It should include the materials
you used for evaluation (e.g., datasets, scripts (both coding scripts and
human scripts), and raw data collected during evaluation).

## Report

Your PM5 report should include several sections:

#### Abstract (5 pts)

Briefly describe your project and contributions you have made for this
milestone.

#### Section: Overview (5 pts)

Create a top level section called `Overview`. In this section, describe the
overall goal of your project -- what overarching problem is it trying to help
solve (not necessarily a visualization problem) and then what is the
visualization aspect of that problem that your project entails.

Then, summarize what work was completed for this milestone. 

#### Section: Technical Progress (15 pts incl. code and movie)

Create a section called `Technical Progress`. If you continued to refine the
technical pieces of this project past PM4, describe how you have done so in
this section. If you have not, create the section and write `Not Applicable`.
Note: if your system is too buggy for your evaluation, then your evaluation
results may not be valid.

#### Section: Evaluation (50 pts total)

**This section is for Visualization Design Projects.**

**If you are not conducting an evaluation, it must be approved by the
instructor first and similar work must be present in the technical progress
section. Furthermore, you must still include this section noting the
evaluation was not conducted and write the Future Evaluation subsection
described below.**

Create a top level section called `Evaluation`. For each form of evaluation
you have, create a subsection. In those subsections, create a subsubsection to
describe the design of your evaluation and your rationale for that design.
Create another subsubsection to describe the results of the evaluation. For
qualitative evaluations, I expect a summary of observations and/or responses.

The raw data from your evaluations should be available in the `Evaluation`
directory under your `Project` directory. In that directory, include a
`README.md` that explains what each file in the `Evaluation` directory is,
such as a script for an evaluation session, a list of interview questions, or
responses from a single individual. You may anonymize the names of individual
participants but basic demographic information about them and their
familiarity with your project domain should be described.

Create a subsection called `Discussion` where you discuss the results of
all your evaluations and what those results indicate regarding your project.

Create a subsection called `Limitations` where you discuss the limitations of
your evaluation approach, what other forms of evaluation you could *feasibily*
conduct to mitigate those limitations, and what these limitations mean for
your conclusions. (10 pts)

Create a subsection called `Future Evaluation` where you discuss how you would
evaluate this project if you had more time and resources. The proposed
evaluation should be **feasible**. For example, it's possible you may recruit
several rocket scientists for a half hour study but you probably cannot
recruit 100s of rocket scientists for a 2 hour study. (10 pts)

#### Section: Results and Section: Analysis (50 pts total)

**These sections are for projects focusing on conducting a study.**

Create two top level sections called `Results` and `Analysis` respectively. In
the `Results` section, describe the results of your study. Be factual. In the
`Analysis` section, write your interpretation off the results off the study.

The raw data from your study should be available in your `Project` directory.
In that directory, include a `README.md` that explains what each file in the
directory is, such as a code for generating results or charts, raw data
generated, or coded entries. If participants are involved, you may anonymize
their names but include basic demographic information about them and their
fafmiliarity with your project domain.

Under `Analysis`, create a subsection called `Limitations` where you discuss
the limitations of your study, what other studies you could *feasibily*
conduct to mitigate those limitations, and what these limitations mean for
your conclusions. (10 pts)

Create another subsection under `Analysis` called `Future Studies` where you
discuss how you would extend this project if you had more time and resources.
The proposed extension should be **feasible**. For example, it's possible you
may recruit several rocket scientists for a half hour study but you probably
cannot recruit 100s of rocket scientists for a 2 hour study.  (10 pts)


#### Section: Lessons Learned (20 pts)

In this section, reflecting upon your project milestones, discuss what lessons
were learned that could possibly be transferred to other visualization
problems and contexts.


#### Section: Project Summary (5 pts)

In this section, summarize your project as a whole, discussing what you did
during the course of this project and what contributions were presented in
this milestone and the ones before it. 

